# Meili search

## Background

A from scratch engine, not based on Solr/Lucene.
Built in Rust. Fully open source

## Pricing

Self hosted, or

$1200/month base price for 10M queries and docs with dedicated system.
Shared system not interested due to GDPR concerns IMO. Can still be placed in EU.
Unsure if "dedicated" is actually a physical machine.


## Score card
### Requirements
> 1. be fast and scalable (i.e. we must be able to start small and grow with minimal concern for performance issues when scaled up)

Not distributed, so only vertically scalable (unlikely problem in the near future)

> 2. have a billing model we can understand and control
	* Think that "search as you type" can produce *many* queries
	* Preferably something that does not scale linearly with number of requests

Base cost + number of reqs in hosted version.

> 3. be a mature product that we have reason to believe will be maintained for the next 3-5 years at least

Series A in 2021. 1.0 release in early 2023. Currently little activity in the repo.
Somewhat unclear how stable the company is.

> 4. be able to comply with GDPR (EU hosting at a minimum)

Can self host or give let them do the hosting. 
Pricing is steep 0$ -> 1200$ -> Custom

> 5. be reasonably easy to use for a developer (no need a math degree to understand what's going on)

Yes, many integrations/SDKs provided

3/5 Points

### Wishlist

* Permissions - Scoped API keys https://typesense.org/docs/0.24.0/api/api-keys.html#create-an-api-key
* Multiple languages (stemming, stop words, etc) - Yes
* Fuzzy search - Yes 
* Faceting - Yes
* Ability to import large documents (300 kb+) - Yes, 2GB
* Ability to import many documents (1M+) - Yes, limited by disk
* Allow weights/boosting - No - They seems to have some advanced "relevancy config"
* Match highlighting - Yes https://rubygems.meilisearch.com/?q=bundler

7/8 Points

## Technical test

Worked well. Responses are full documents.
Speed is nothing amazing. Don't see benefit over Elastic.

### Issues

* IDs are not autogenerated. Not a big issue just seems odd


## Summary

Somewhat meh experience. Don't feel like it adds anything compared to Elastic.
